#   Data governance
    Data governance is, first and foremost, a data management function to ensure the quality, integrity, security, and usability of the data collected by an organization
    We can expand on that definition and say that data governance engages people, processes, and technologies to maximize data value across an organization, while protecting data with appropriate security controls. Effective data governance is developed with intention and supported by the organization. When data governance is accidental and haphazard, the side effects can range from untrusted data to security breaches, and everything in between. Being intentional about data governance will maximize the organization’s data capabilities and value generated from data. It will also (hopefully) keep a company out of headlines for questionable or downright wreckless data practices.

Think of the typical example where data governance is done poorly. A business analyst gets a request for a report, but doesn’t know what data to use to answer the question. He or she may spend hours digging through dozens of tables in a transactional database, taking wild guesses at what fields might be useful. The analyst compiles a report that is “directionally correct”, but isn’t entirely sure that the report’s underlying data is accurate or sound. The recipient of the report also questions the validity of the data. In the end, the integrity of the analyst - and all data in the company’s systems - is called into question. The company is confused about its performance, making business planning next to impossible.

Data governance is a foundation for data-driven business practices and a mission-critical part of the data engineering lifecycle. When data governance is practiced well, people, processes, and technologies are all aligned to treat data as a key driver of the business. And, if data issues occur, they are promptly handled and things carry on.

The core categories of data governance are discoverability, security, and accountability.3 Within these core categories are subcategories, such as data quality, metadata, privacy, and much more. Let’s look at each core category in turn.